[devtools] WebAuthn tab documentation (#9022)
google/WebFundamentals: src/content/en/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/index.md

project_path: /web/tools/chrome-devtools/_project.yaml
book_path: /web/tools/chrome-devtools/_book.yaml
description: Emulate Authenticators and Debug WebAuthn in Chrome DevTools.

{# wf_updated_on: 2020-09-27 #}
{# wf_published_on: 2020-09-28 #}

> {# wf_blink_components: Security, Platform>DevTools #}

Reviewer: Are these the same components as displayed in monorail? If so, instead of Security we should have Blink>WebAuthentication.

# Emulate Authenticators and Debug WebAuthn in Chrome DevTools {: .page-title }

{% include "web/_shared/contributors/fawazm.html" %}
{% include "web/_shared/contributors/jecelynyeen.html" %}

Use the **WebAuthn** tab in Chrome DevTools to create and interact with software-based virtual authenticators. 

## Open the WebAuthn tab  {: .open }

1. Visit a page that uses WebAuthn, such as our demo page here - [webauthndemo.appspot.com/](https://webauthndemo.appspot.com/) (please login to access the page).
2. [Open DevTools](/chrome-devtools/open).

> 3. Click the **More Options** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **More Options** 
```

![More](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/images/shared/more.png){: .inline-icon } > **More tools** > **WebAuthn** to open the WebAuthn tab.

![WebAuthn tab](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/01-webauthn-tab.png)

## Enable the virtual authenticator environment {: .enable }

1. On the WebAuthn tab, click to enable the checkbox **Enable virtual authenticator environment**.
2. Once enabled, you will see a new section **New authenticator**.

![Enable virtual authenticator environment](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/02-enable-virtual-auth.png)

## Add a virtual authenticator {: .add }

1. On the **New authenticator** section, configure the options.
2. Click on the **Add** button. 
3. You can now see a new section of your newly-created authenticator.
![Authenticator](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/03-authenticor.png)

> The **Authenticator** section includes a **Credentials** table. The table will empty until a credential is registered to the authenticator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Authenticator** section includes a **Credentials** table. The table is empty until a credential is registered to the authenticator.
```

(or "will be", but in general it's nice to [avoid “will”](https://twitter.com/mathias/status/839160485324947456))

1. On the demo page, click on **Register new credential** to register a new credential.
2. A new credential is now added to the **Credentials** table in the WebAuthn tab.

![View credentials](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/03-view-cred.png)

On the demo page, you can click the **Authenticate** button multiple times. Observe the **Credentials** table. The **Sign Count** of the credential will increase accordingly.

### Export and remove credentials {: .expoert-remove }

You can export or remove a credential by clicking the **Export** or **Remove** button.

![Export or remove a credential](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/03-export-remove.png)

## Rename an authenticator {: .rename }

1. To rename an authenticator, click the **Edit** button beside the authenticator name.
2. Edit the name, then click **Enter** to save the changes.

![Rename an authenticator](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/04-rename.png)

## Set the active authenticator {: .set-active }

A newly created authenticator will be set active automatically. DevTools supports **only one active virtual authenticator** at any point of time. 

> No authenticator will be set active upon removing the currently active authenticator.

Reviewer 2: more active:

```suggestion
Removing the currently active authenticator results in no authenticator being active.
```

To set an authenticator as the active authenticator, select the **Active** radio button of an authenticator. 

![Set active authenticator](/web/tools/chrome-devtools/webauthn/images/05-set-active.png)
 

## Remove a virtual authenticator {: .remove }

> To remove a virtual authenticator, click on the **Remove** button of the authenticator. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To remove a virtual authenticator, click the **Remove** button of the authenticator. 
```
